why do you want to work here?
I felt so much about this company. They are the leader in the industry. I am impressed with the background and stories of the founders.This is the company I am looking for and grow with, where things are constantly developing and changing and I believe I have a great deal of experience to offer.

Can you work under pressure?
1. I must can definitely work under pressure. In my current position I can be faced with stressful situations they require me to work under pressure on a daily basis. And I have since learnt to manage stress. Now it is just part of the job that I do well.
2. Yes, I actually enjoy to work under pressure, though proper planning and time management will greatly reduce any alarming deadlines.

What can you do for us that no one else can?
Explain about your skill set and past achivement which helps customer product been better or earned more profit. So, the same I can do for your team in manking things better.
Here explain about the continuous integration, ELK stack, etc. that I did along with the current deliverables.

Tell about yourself
1. Explain more on current assignment and concentrate on the accomplishment which you have done
2. Speak about how did you introduce soem new technology and make the things better for the company.

Why should I hire you?
1. Review the job description and tell that how your skills and past experience support the company.

Why do you want to leave your job?
My current assignments are going good and I am delivering them as per plan. I have got very good feedback from my managers for making things perfect with my current skill set. Now when I get to know about an architect opening in Modria, which is the leader in conflict resolution domain, I like to contribute  to this company with my current skillset.
But I am looking for new oppurtunities with more challenges and new areas to explore.
My current company is too far from my home andI spend 2.5 hrs in travel. So, I am looking for a company which are closure to my home.





Regards,
Balakrishnan M.

"WINNERS DON'T DO DIFFERENT THINGS. THEY DO THINGS DIFFERENTLY"