Sorted list:
1.	Reasonable knowledge of App Server deployment specifics (i.e. JBOSS)
2.	knowledge on Queues( MQ)
3.	knowledge on caching frameworks and distributed cache(Redis, Hazlecast) and data grid products like  GemFire, Coherence, Terracotta, Gigaspaces, memcache, Ehcache (at least one of the product)
4.	Monitoring tools and performance tuning for Java code and JVM.
5.	Understand application scalability, connection pooling, load balancing, caching and reliability concepts
6.	Analyzing heap dump and thread dump will be a plus.
7.	Working knowledge of spring integration, Spring AMQP, Rabbit MQ and in-memory databases.
8.	Understanding of SOA concepts using TIBCO, MULE or any other ESB 
9.	hands-on experience with Cloud platforms (SaaS, PaaS, IaaS) and Cloud computing concepts
10.	Experience in cloud based development on AWS, Azure or other cloud platforms is a plus
11.	Basic knowledge of Mobile frameworks and technologies (Titanium, PhoneGap, HTML5, Native) 
12.	Database and Linux level performance tuning will be a plus.
13.	reactive programming can be done in java 8, using RxJava (http://reactivex.io/).
14.	Scala is used for concurrent based application because of Actor framework but similar frame called jActor is available as opensource in Java.


Collections:
* Experience in cloud based development on AWS, Azure or other cloud platforms is a plus
Programming Languages/ frameworks: Java , J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Python , JMS/MQTT/AMQP based message middleware, Apache Camel
Familiarity with Monitoring tools and HA: ELB, Nginx, Nagios, Cloud watch, Zookeeper, Ansible, Chef , Puppet
Distributed Cache: Redis, Hazelcast
 
Adept at creating migration strategies (PaaS based approach / Rehost, Refactor, Revise, Rebuild, Replace) for migrating applications onto Cloud platform; defining delivery architecture, creating the migration plans, designing the orchestration plans, and more.
Has deep experience in at least one of the standard industry cloud PaaS platforms available such as SFDC, AWS, Oracle, IBM, HP, VMWare etc
Experience in enterprise architecture. Proven Capabilities in SOA, ESB, BPM, BPEL and advanced Java features EJB 3.1 and JMS etc
Experience in BFSI domain and with Oracle middleware highly desirable 
Seven Plus years of hands-on experience with Cloud platforms (SaaS, PaaS, IaaS) and Cloud computing concepts
Knowledge of Caching technologies like EH-Cache, Coherence, etc 
Understanding of SOA concepts using TIBCO, MULE or any other ESB 
Basic knowledge of Mobile frameworks and technologies (Titanium, PhoneGap, HTML5, Native) 
Understand application scalability, connection pooling, load balancing, caching and reliability concepts
Practical experience with Hybris web services.
Working knowledge of spring integration, Spring AMQP, Rabbit MQ and in memory databases.
Working knowledge of distributed caching or data grid products like GemFire, Coherence, Terracotta, Gigaspaces, memcache, Ehcache (at least one of the product)

* Knowledge on queues (i.e. MQ)
* Knowledge on caching frame works (i.e. Redis)
* Reasonable knowledge of App Server deployment specifics (i.e. JBOSS)
* Performance tuning at JAVA Code as well as at JVM level will be a good to have skill.
* Analysing heap dump and thread dump will be a plus.
* Database and Linux level performance tuning will be a plus.

Reporting in Java web applications using Jasper/ BIRT/ HTML reports 
SOAP/ REST web services ; should have used some form of security with these SAML tokens/ OAuth/ https 


